So, we will begin building the home,
the rest of the homepage here.
But before we do that, there are a few
concepts that we need to be aware of.
So, the first is the box model,
and if you've heard of CSS,
you may have heard of
the box model before.
So, we go back to this concept of
block elements versus inline elements.
So, again, block breaks onto a new line.
We've got padding margin and
border separating it from
other elements on the page.
And when there is no explicit
width set on the element,
it's gonna take up the whole width.
Inline elements, again, they sit in line,
they don't cause other elements
to break onto new lines.
But only left and
right padding, and margin, and
border are gonna move
elements away from it.
It's not gonna respect top and
bottom for padding, margin, and border.
We'll see what that means in a minute.
And then,
we set inline block on our nav items.
So we can set this on an element if we
don't want it to break onto a new line,
but we do want to be able to set padding,
margin, and border.
So this is what the box model
looks like in practicality.
And if you were following along when I
was inspecting things you can see at
the bottom of the Chrome Dev inspector,
we've got a box model to picked it here
shows you margin, border, padding, and
content So, content is the area
where our content is displayed.
Padding is whitespace
that wraps the content.
Border wraps the content and padding.
And then, margin is gonna wrap content,
border, and padding.
Now, here's where things
get a little spicy.
We've got a standard box model.
So, in the standard box model,
we actually can define the width and
height of the content box.
So, it's that inner box
that holds our content.
And on top of that, padding and
border are added to those
dimensions to get the total size.
So, what does that look like?
If we've got a box, and we set a width and
height of 200 pixels by 80 pixels,
that defines the content
area within height.
So, our content box is 200 pixels width,
80 pixels height.
We've also defined padding and border.
So, 20 pixels of padding
on all four sides,
10 pixels of border on all four sides.
So, the actual width and
height of our box when it's being
calculated is not 200 by 80.
The width is 200 pixels for
the content box,
plus 20 pixels of left and
right padding, and
10 pixels on left and right for border.
The height is the same.
We've defined a height of 80 pixels for
the content box, and on top of that, we've
got a cumulative 40 pixels for padding,
and a cumulative 20 pixels of border.
So, the actual dimensions of this,
with the standard box model,
are not 200 by 80, it's 260 by 140.
This is where you might see something
called box-sizing border-box.
This is the alternative box model, so
the size is the content area width
minus padding and border, so
it will not be any larger
than what you've defined.
So here, we set width and
height to 200 by 80 again,
but because we have padding and
border also defined.
We've set box sizing to border box, so
we're saying we want this width
to be no larger than 200 pixels,
regardless of padding, or
border, or content width.
And we want the height
to be no higher than 80.
So, to calculate the actual width and
height of the content box, you need to
take that defined width, subtract out
the padding, and subtract out the border.
So, the actual width and height of
the content box is gonna be 140 by 20.
Versus here, it was the actual 200 by 80.
It was just a quick explanation of
what box sizing border box does, but
it is quite interesting, and
it's easier to set explicit width and
height of elements if you really
need them to stay within boundaries.